World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Web for All Accessibility Internationalization Web Security Privacy Web and Industry Automotive and Transportation Entertainment (TV and Broadcasting) Publishing Web Payments Web of Data Web and Telecommunications Web of Things W3C Work Groups Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct Participant guidebook W3C Community Groups Get a W3C Account Dev Resources API Validators W3C cheatsheet More Open Source Software Web Platform Tests W3Cx (Training) Skip News New video introduces TPAC — our annual conference 8 July 2021 | Archive W3C released today a short video introducing our annual conference. TPAC is the acclaimed event where web standards are developed for the benefit of humanity. Watch the video to learn how the Web community engages at this important rendez-vous, how together we create momentum, brainstorm and coordinate work, how together the Web Consortium makes the Web work, for everyone. W3C offers an Inclusion Fund and Fellowships for TPAC 2021 29 June 2021 | Archive 60% of the world is online and we want and need to reflect the diversity of the whole world as more people continue to access, use and create the web. We believe that more diversity means better representation, which leads to better and more inclusive design. Indeed, more background, more use cases, more edge cases, lead to a better Web. More diversity also brings higher quality results. We aspire to be a model in supporting greater diversity in technology. We continue to have a long way to go but we have taken steps so that we both attract more diverse participants and also encourage them to be welcome in our environment. Among these steps is the opening today of the W3C TPAC Inclusion Fund’s applications, until 15 August; and in September the new TPAC Fellows honorarium of US$ 500 will be awarded to a few to cover work towards W3C goals done outside of habitual paid work. Both offerings are designed for people from an underrepresented group who wouldn’t be able to attend or meaningfully contribute to TPAC without financial support. The TPAC Inclusion Fund is sponsored by W3C and W3C members Adobe, Samsung Electronics, Coil, Microsoft, TetraLogical, Siteimprove, as well as Charles Nevile and an anonymous donor. We recognize and thank them for this important gesture. Our CEO Jeff Jaffe has written about this today and we invite you to read his 2021 update on diversity and inclusion at W3C which also describes these offerings in detail. First Public Working Draft: Internationalization Glossary 8 July 2021 | Archive The Internationalization Working Group has published a First Public Working Draft of Internationalization Glossary. This document provides definitions for various terms related to W3C internationalization. W3C Invites Implementations of ARIA in HTML 6 July 2021 | Archive The Web Applications Working Group has published the ARIA in HTML as a W3C Candidate Recommendation Snapshot. This specification defines the authoring rules (author conformance requirements) for the use of Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) 1.1 and Digital Publishing WAI-ARIA Module 1.0 attributes on [HTML] elements. This specification’s primary objective is to define requirements for use with conformance checking tools used by authors (i.e., web developers). These requirements will aid authors in their development of web content, including custom interfaces/widgets, that makes use of ARIA to complement or extend the features of the host language [HTML]. Accessibility accommodations now part of all W3C workshops 5 July 2021 | Archive W3C announced today that as part of our growing concern for inclusion, all W3C workshops will now include the following standard accessibility accommodations: English captions available on all pre recorded presentations, before the live sessions Real-time English captions available during the live sessions American Sign language and other services will depend on participant requests W3C organizes Workshops to promote early involvement in the development of W3C activities from Members and the public. The goal of a workshop is usually either to convene experts and other interested parties for an exchange of ideas about a technology or policy, or to address the pressing concerns of W3C Members. First Public Working Draft: CSS Fonts Module Level 5 29 June 2021 | Archive The CSS Working Group has published a First Public Working Draft of CSS Fonts Module Level 5. This document extends the ‘font-size-adjust’ property to improve legibility of fallback fonts across a wider range of writing systems, adds font metrics overrides to reduce layout shift while Web fonts load, and adds overrides to improve the synthesis of super- and sub-scripts. First Public Working Draft: Web Neural Network API 22 June 2021 | Archive The Web Machine Learning Working Group has published a First Public Working Draft of Web Neural Network API. This document describes a dedicated low-level API for neural network inference hardware acceleration. Read more in the blog post about context on this work. Web Audio API is a W3C Recommendation 17 June 2021 | Archive The Audio Working Group has published Web Audio API as a W3C Recommendation. This specification describes a high-level Web API for creating, shaping, and processing audio directly in a Web browser or in web applications. With the API standardized and deployed as a royalty-free feature in Web browsers and other devices and platforms, both on desktop and mobile, creating sound with the Web Audio API has become a dependable, widely available, built-in capability, eliminating the need to install plugins or download separate applications. You may read more in our Press Release. W3C Strategic Highlights, April 2021 30 April 2021 | Archive Today W3C released to the public the April 2021 edition of our W3C Strategic Highlights which documents the tremendous work to enhance, grow and strengthen the Web platform, and how the Web Consortium meets the needs of industry and society as a whole. At the same time, as we celebrate the anniversary of the release of the World Wide Web into the public domain on 30 April 1993 by CERN, our CEO Jeff Jaffe has published his reflections on the centrality of the Web Consortium as the Web has been accelerating to meet society’s needs, and on the importance of the Web infrastructure in the modern world. Human civilization is at an extraordinary juncture. The Web Consortium is in an incredible position to host the open forum where diverse voices from different parts of the world come together to incubate and build the global standards for the Web in the 25 years to come. More news… Talks and Appearances 2021-09-22 (22 SEP) Disconnected? Digital Access and Participation for People with Disabilities by Shadi Abou-Zahra Internet Summit Austria 2021 Events 2021-07-24 (24 JUL) Chinese Web IG Virtual Meeting on Immersive Web Standards Online event 2021-10-12 (12 OCT) October AC 2021 Virtual Event 2021-10-18 (18 OCT) – 2021-10-29 (29 OCT) TPAC 2021 Virtual Event About W3C The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is an international community that develops open standards to ensure the long-term growth of the Web. Donations Become a Friend of W3C: support the W3C mission and free developer tools. W3C Blog Diversity and Inclusion at W3C: Inclusion Fund and Fellowships for TPAC 2021 29 June 2021 by Jeff Jaffe Loving and Leaving W3C 23 June 2021 by Shadi Abou-Zahra Data Catalog Vocabulary (DCAT) v3: 2nd Public Working Draft 18 May 2021 by Peter Winstanley Fellowship and jobs at W3C W3C Member Testimonial Web Accessibility and W3C standards (Video) Watch our video on Web Accessibility and W3C standards! Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2021 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio, Beihang) Usage policies apply.
