XML Technology - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation Skip XML Technology XML Technology On this page ? technology topics • news • upcoming events and talks XML Technologies including XML, XML Namespaces, XML Schema, XSLT, Efficient XML Interchange (EXI), and other related standards. XML Essentials XML is shouldered by a set of essential technologies such as the infoset and namespaces. They address issues when using XML in specific applications contexts. Efficient Interchange XML standards are omnipresent in enterprise computing, and are part of the foundation of the Web. Because the standards are highly interoperable and affordable, people have wanted to use them in a wide variety of applications. However, in some settings (on devices with low memory or low bandwidth, or where performance is critical) experience has shown that a more efficient form of XML is required. Schema Formal descriptions of vocabularies create flexibility in authoring environments and quality control chains. W3C’s XML Schema, SML, and data binding technologies provide the tools for quality control of XML data. Security Manipulating data with XML requires sometimes integrity, authentication and privacy. XML signature, encryption, and xkms can help create a secure environment for XML. Transformation Very frequently one wants to transform XML content into other formats (including other XML formats). XSLT and XPath are very powerful tools for creating different representations of XML content. Query XQuery (supported by XPath) is a query language for XML to extract data, similar to the role of SQL for databases, or SPARQL for the Semantic Web. Components The XML ecosystem is using additional tools to create a richer environment for using and manipulating XML documents. These components include style sheets, xlink xml:id, xinclude, xpointer, xforms, xml fragments, and events. Processing A processing model defines what operations should be performed in what order on an XML document. Internationalization W3C has worked with the community on the internationalization of XML, for instance for specifying the language of XML content. Publishing XML grew out of the technical publication community. Use XSL-FO to publish even large or complex multilingual XML documents to HTML, PDF or other formats; include SVG diagrams and MathML formulas in the output. News None. See news archive. Talks and Appearances Events None. See full list of W3C Events. Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2015 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio, Beihang) Usage policies apply.
