Participate - W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Member Home Skip W3C »  Participate Participate W3C invites the public to participate in W3C via discussion lists, events, blogs, translations, and other means described below. Participation in W3C Community and Business Groups is open to all. Participation in W3C Working Groups (and other types) is open to W3C Members and other invited parties. W3C groups work with the public through specification reviews as well as contributions of use cases, tests, and implementation feedback. Groups Community and Business Groups, Working Groups and More, instructions for joining, … community and business groups: fora for innovation that are open to all! working groups, interest groups, etc. participant guidebook Specification milestones (tool to compute the number of days until W3C Recommendation) Calendar Talks, workshops, membership meetings, endorsed confs, … talks - presentations of W3C work by the community workshops - W3C meetings to discuss new ideas for work meetings of W3C members - working group, advisory committee, technical plenary (TPAC) conferences endorsed by W3C - support for standards in the broader community Discussion Forums Mailing lists, blogs and microblogs, news and newsletter, tutorials, video, … mailing lists - discussion fora for W3C groups blogs - group and W3C staff blogs, status updates via twitter news - archived home page news newsletter - weekly news summary and upcoming events and talks tutorials and courses - introductions to W3C technology podcasts and video Technical Feedback Reviews of specifications, charters, strategy … specification reviews - help improve technology through feedback on specs charter reviews - share your thoughts about proposed work Strategy Funnel - review and contribute to the Strategy Funnel of ideas in-development Code Implementations, test suites, open source software, … implementation of W3C specifications - share news of your implementation test suite contributions - test cases can significantly improve interoperability evaluations of implementations - help W3C link to useful implementations contributions to W3C open source software - help develop the validator and other tools Standards Promotion W3C Developer Avenue, Translations, tools, logos, education and outreach, … W3C Developers avenue features W3C offerings and tools Web developers need for their work; validators & checkers, training, etc. translations of specifications - community translations ensure global impact tools to help use standards - validation services and more to help standards-based design logos and icons - badges for W3C, validators, and more education and outreach efforts - help others learn about standards other organizations that promote Web standards - organizations known for their standards support Liaisons List of liaisons, requesting a liaison, EU-funded projects, … list of international liaisons - contact information and scope mission of WC liaisons requesting a liaison considerations when establishing a liaison participation in W3C by EU-funded projects Questions About Participation? Please consult the W3C Participation FAQ for answers to questions such as: Can I participate "as an individual" in a W3C Group? Can I participate in the Web Platform Working Group? How does W3C promote international participation? Does W3C have guidance for maintaining a positive work environment? W3C Developer Avenue W3C Developer Avenue features W3C offerings and tools Web developers need for their work; validators & checkers, training, etc.. How to join Member Employees Invited Experts Quick Links Community and Business Groups Working Groups and More Blogs Participation FAQ Participant Guidebook Code of Conduct Public Accounts My Account Request an Account Change Password Recover Password Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2021 W3C ® ( MIT , ERCIM , Keio, Beihang) Usage policies apply.
