About W3C W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Site Navigation W3C Standards Participate Membership About W3C Member Home Skip W3C »  About W3C About W3C The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is an international community where Member organizations, a full-time staff, and the public work together to develop Web standards. Led by Web inventor and Director Tim Berners-Lee and CEO Jeffrey Jaffe, W3C's mission is to lead the Web to its full potential. Contact W3C for more information. W3C Mission Principles, vision, … principles - Web for all, Web on everything vision - Web of consumers and authors, data and services, trust Facts About W3C People, organization, revenues, process, patent policy, history, … people of W3C - Tim Berners-Lee, staff, W3C Evangelists, W3C Members organizational structure - hosts, offices, process and patent policy, permanent groups revenue model - W3C dues, grants, other forms of support international presence - W3C activities span the globe, in multiple languages process - how W3C produces standards patent policy - community commitment to Royalty-Free standards history - from the invention of the Web through key milestones Press and Analysts Press releases, requests for photos and interviews, … W3C press releases W3C in the press - select links to articles and blogs about W3C interview requests - experts on Web technology can answer your questions photo requests speaker requests - we will try to connect you with a speaker for your next conference Sponsorship and Donations Support for W3C operations, validator service, … organization sponsor - how organizations and individuals that benefit greatly from the Web can support operations event sponsor - reach with W3C's international audience of technology influencers web for all sponsor - demonstrate leadership in social responsibility to make the Web available to all people developer sponsor - help W3C provide tools and educational materials to the international developer community validator sponsorship - help W3C continue to provide this free service Jobs and Fellowships Employment opportunities, fellows, … open positions - contribute as part of the W3C Team fellows - Member employees integrated as staff Questions About W3C or the Web? Please consult the Help and FAQ for answers to questions such as: What does W3C do? How is W3C funded? Is W3C sending me spam? What is the difference between the Web and the Internet? Quick Links Contact Staff Help and FAQ Systems Status (outages) Video on Web Accessibility and W3C Standards Video on Web Standards Video on W3C Footer Navigation Navigation Home Standards Participate Membership About W3C Contact W3C Contact Help and FAQ Sponsor / Donate Site Map Feedback W3C Updates Copyright © 2021 W3C ® ( MIT , ERCIM , Keio, Beihang) Usage policies apply.
